# 2026-01-27

## Elevator Pitch

Developer Experience (DX) is fundamental in the day to day enjoyment of developers. Statically typed languages like the JavaScript “superset” TypeScript are generally seen to improve Developer Experience. Should Junior Web Developers start out by learning TypeScript directly to reap it's benefits earlier in their career? Through interviews with both seniors and junior we are going to evaluate if that is viable.



Developer Experience (DX) is fundamental in the day to day enjoyment of developers. Dynamic languages like vanilla JavaScript are known for foot-guns. Can statically typed languages like the JavaScript “superset” TypeScript improve the Developer Experience of Junior Developers and minimize foot-guns? We are going to try to figure out if that is true through interviews with both senior and junior developers. 


**Final as of now?**
TypeScript is widely believed to improve developer experience, but its impact on junior developers is unclear. This thesis investigates whether and how TypeScript changes junior developers developer experience compared to JavaScript, focusing on concrete aspects like debugging, confidence, refactoring, and common mistakes. We will collect evidence through semi-structured (including code tests) interviews with junior and senior developers and analyze recurring themes to produce practical guidance on when TypeScript improves (or harms) DX for juniors.”



---

- Is the learning curve too step for the juniors to reap any benefits early on?
- Do we want to focus on "all" parts of DX, just a few or one? (debugging, confidence, refactoring, and common mistakes)
- What are "common mistakes"?
- What gives a developer confidence? Writing better code, less error-prone, understandability?

Interview senior developers about their experience with TypeScript, how they got into it and why, what about TS has improved their DX and confidence, etc etc?

Conduct workshops with juniors with no experience, to some experience of TypeScript. Conduct some code tests, interview, surveys, and try to see if the results from the workshops can be somewhat correlated to the experience of the senior developers. Do the juniors start to experience some of the benefits of TS that the seniors mention?
