# 2026-02-03

After some research on Deepface and how yo use it. We found that we could connect a DB to DeepFace with will make it easier for our use in the course 2dv015 and possible eaven in this experiment.

We also found that the same author that wrote `DeepFace` wrote `RetinaFace`. `RetinaFace` is a face detection model, which helps us to detect and extract faces in images. We can later use the images and use in `DeepFace`. 

## Our thoughts

### Thesis - 2dv50e

In some way we need to map the images and names together? Pandas?

After that we need to select the best option between using folder or DB from the images.
- If we use folder we may need to modify the dataset to be able to use it in `DeepFace`.
- If we use DB we need to iterate over every image and add it the DB. *(Will take a long time)*

### Course - 2dv015

`RetinaFace` can detect multiple faces in an image and then also extract the face from the image. This gived us new images to compare to.

`DeepFace` can also extract multiple faces from an image. This can be used with the `extract_faces` function. 

We want to connect `DeepFace` to a DB. Postgress? MongoDB?

Do we want to store multiple images of a person? yes? Better for predictions?

We may need to build something on top of `DeepFace` because it is build on functions. So we need to connect the the DB everytime we want to register and search for a person. This can lead to higher latency?

*They say ``RetinaFace`` and `mtcnn` are best but slower. If we want speed we should use `opencv`*


